Chicago,IL

+(1) 773-800-6197

melodyaisana@gmail.com


     Kalamkas

 

                                   Authorized to work in the USA  for any employer without sponsorship.

              SDET (Software Development Engineer in Test)

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

 

● Strategic and vision-driven Full Stack Software Development in Test with 6 years of professional experience in Quality Assurance and Software testing, Automation with full system development life cycle experience, including designing, developing, and implementing test plans, test cases, and test processes.
● Solid experience in Agile Scrum and Waterfall environments. Demonstrates strong proficiency in both manual and automation testing of web-based applications.
● Excellent knowledge of JAVA Object Oriented Programming (OOP) language and its implementation while automation testing
● Comprehensive knowledge of each phase of Software Testing Life Cycle (STLC), Software Developing Life. Cycle (SDLC) and Defect Life Cycle (DLC).
● Experienced in Ad-Hoc Testing, Smoke Testing, Functional, Regression.  
● Analyzed the Business Requirements and Developed the Detailed Test Plan and   the Test Strategy
○ Strong knowledge  maintaining Defect Tracking system and preparing project reports for end-to-end testing using JIRA.
● Implemented Page Objects framework, Hybrid framework from scratch.
●      Developed Behavior Driven and Data Driven framework to retrieve test actions, test data from Excel files and SQL Databases.
●     Configured Maven for Java automation projects and developed Maven project object model (POM).
● Developed BDD tests using Cucumber by writing behavior's and step definitions. 
● Created SQL queries, connected to database and generated test reports.
● Involved designing and creating automation frameworks using Java, Selenium WebDriver, Cucumber, Maven, TestNG/Junit, Rest API, Appium Android Studio,  GIT.
● Good knowledge on Object Oriented Programming (OOP) concept and extensively used Java for test case automation.
● Involved in the automation of Web API testing using Rest-Assured framework by invoking POST, PUT calls.
● Experience in Smoke Testing, Functional Testing,UI Testing, Regression Testing, and System Testing.
● Tested applications in different types of browsers, such as Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
● Hands on experience in working with tools such as Selenium WebDriver/GRID
● using Java, JUnit, TestNG, Maven, POM, Jenkins.
● Strong experience in OOP concepts of Java and extensively used classes, objects, data structures, inheritance, polymorphism, exception handling, packages, collection and many more.
● Tested Restful API's using Postman and Java with RestAssured library. Responsible for preparing test data before the code is moved to test environment.
● Worked in pairs with developers to write Cucumber feature files and develop Selenium test scripts to automate the stories during development as part of Test Driven Development. Implemented multi browser testing to ensure cross browser compatibility.
● Experience in performing Database testing on Oracle, using JDBC library for automation and developing SQL queries for Backend, and using SQL Developer for manual testing.
● Good working experience on automating API testing with AWS cloud using Rest Assured and Postman for manual testing.
● Utilized Cucumber HTML Reports and JSON Reports to automate Test Reports and include screenshots of failed scenarios.Proficiency of writing CSS and XPath selector and other locators for element identification.
● Designed and developed Page Objects using Page Object Model Design Pattern and as a project management tool I have really good experience using Maven.Performed Data Driven and Keyword Driven Tests. Designed and maintained Hybrid Framework.
● Implemented Page Object Model design pattern in framework.
● Good knowledge on Junit, TestNG frameworks, Maven for Project building tool, Jenkins for
● Capable of performing cross browser testing using TestNG, Selenium Grid and Sauce Labs
● Expertise using JIRA as the project management tool for defect-reporting and defect-tracking
● Solid experience in working with continuous integration tool Jenkins and scheduling test cases on daily and nightly basis.
● Worked with EC2 Amazon services (AWS) 
● Proactively involved in Agile ceremonies including Sprint planning, grooming, review and retrospective
● Working experience with Apache POI libraries
● Good experience working with Apache Log4j utilities and SVN version control tool
● Continuous Integration, Continuous Deployment 
● Excellent  in working with Git & GitHub as local and remote repository.
● Excellent analytical skills with good communication and self-organizing skills, quick learner and ability to adapt to new environments quickly, committed team player.
 

 

 

 

   TECHNICAL SKILLS

 

Testing Tools: Selenium WebDriver,Selenium Grid, Linux,   Postman, Cucumber, Junit, TestNG, JDBC, REST Assured.  Test Framework: BDD, TDD, Page Object Model, Page Factory Languages: Java, HTML, SQL, XML, JSON Project Management: Jira, Confluence, MS Office and Outlook Build/ CI Tools: Maven, Gradle, Jenkins Bug Tracking Tools: JIRA,  Repository System: GIT,  GitHub Databases: Oracle SQL Methodologies: Agile-Scrum, Waterfall IDE: Eclipse, IntelliJ 

 

      

 

 

                                                            WORK EXPERIENCE

 

Client: United Health Group, Minnetonka, Minnesota

Title: Software Automation Tester 

Duration: December 2019 - present

 

● Engaged in the full lifecycle of an Agile project .Worked with a Scrum team, attending Daily Scrums, Sprint Planning and estimating efforts for user stories, Sprint Grooming and Sprint Retrospective meetings.
● Collaborating with Software Engineering Leaders, Project Managers, Product Managers, and others to ensure smooth integration of Quality Engineering solutions into the SDLC.
● Involved in Development and Execution of Test Cases and Test Scripts by reviewing the business requirements and technical specifications documents.
● Qualified in performing different test types such as (Functional ,  , Regression , Smoke , Positive, Negative, Black box , Front- End, Back- End , UI(User Acceptance) and API testing.
● Built and maintained Automation Framework using Selenium WebDriver, Java, Maven, JUnit and Cucumber for application UI testing.
● For reusability and maintainability implemented Page Object Model for UI testing.
● Automated API Web Services testing using Java Rest Assured library
● Tested API Web Services using Postman manually.
●    Performed Negative Testing, Positive Testing, Ad-Hoc Testing, Smoke Test.
● Experience in validating JSON response using JSON Object, Response classes.
● Performed back-end testing on Oracle database by writing SQL queries.
● Automated database implementing JDBC library.
● Used core Java concepts that includes Collections, Exception handling, OOPs.
● Extended Data Driven framework for the automated test scripts to check how the application performs against multiple sets of data implementing Scenario Outline.
●       Retested defect fixes and provided an update to development team.
● Tracked bugs efficiently, logged defects using JIRA project management tool.
● Prepare and update management with test results and reports.
● Maintained continuous test integration and automatic build by using Jenkins and mailed the build outputs to the team members.
● Involved in performing Selenium WebDriver and Cucumber training to Functional and new team members whenever needed
● Demonstrated detail-oriented and thorough approach to assigned user stories  
 

 

 

 

 

 

Client:  Home Depot, Atlanta ,Georgia 

Title:​Software Automation Tester

Duration: October 2017 - November 2019

 

● Developed and managed automated tests within an automation framework using Java Programming language.
● Participated in daily stand-ups, Sprint Planning, Sprint Grooming, Sprint Retrospective meetings and review sessions.
● Attended  in Production maintenance and user feedback discussions, and participated in documentation analysis meetings with developers and BA team.
● Directly elaborated in handling the utilization and strategy on manual testing and automated Regression testing across various functionalities.
● Implemented Regression, Functional, Smoke, Front-end, Back-end and End-to-end Tests.
● Developed and maintained Behavior Driven Development (BDD) framework creating and using Cucumber features, scenarios in Gherkin language and Step definitions, and executed scenarios using Cucumber tags in Runner class under Java platform.
● Developed and implemented Objects using Page Object Model Design Pattern and Selenium WebDriver API.
● Tested Restful API’s using Postman, and Java with RestAssured library.
● Worked with Maven as build management tool, Git for version control, Jenkins for Continuous Integration and Jira for project management and defect-tracking tool.
● Automated test reports using Cucumber plugin, to achieve HTMLand JSON reports attached with failed scenarios and reporting it with screenshots using Java.
● Executed database testing by writing and passing SQL queriesalong with JDBC.
● Prepared and updated management with test results and reports.
● Automated Test scripts using Selenium WebDriver,  Selenium Grid, Java, TestNG, Appium, Maven using  IntelliJ IDE.
● Implementing Jenkins to achieve CI CD and to execute automation scripts on a regular basis by scheduling Jenkins jobs while generating Cucumber reports.
● Developed test scripts to implement Test Cases, Test Scenarios, and features for BDD(Behavior Driven Development), TDD (Test Driven Development) using Cucumber.
● Tested applications in different types of browsers, such as Google Chrome, Firefox, Safari.
● Analyzed test results, tracked the defects and generated reports using JIRA.
● Worked with the development team very closely and made sure that all the defects were fixed and closed in a timely manner.
● Demonstrated detail-oriented and thorough approach to assigned user stories
 

  

 

 

Client: City Bank, Lubbock ,  Texas

Title: QA Automation Engineer 

 Duration: March 2015 – September 2017

 

● Engaged in the full lifecycle of an Waterfall, Agile project and actively participating in sprint planning meetings, daily stand-ups, sprint demos, and sprint retros. 
● Involved in corporate transitioning from Waterfall to Agile Scrum model, provided inputs during grooming and User Story Sessions.
● Actively attended in Requirement Specification and Documentation review meetings with BA and Development team.
● Executed test cases manually and analyzed results
● Used BDD with Cucumber, JAVA language and created future files with a scenario and scenario outline as well as writing step definitions for behavior.
● Used Data Driven Frameworks and Selenium tool to read the data from excel file using Apache POI and generate the pass/fail in the excel sheet.
● Designed and developed Page Objects using Page Object Model Design Pattern and as a project management tool I have really good experience using Maven.
● Automated testing tools such as TestNG and Selenium to conduct systems, integration, user acceptance, positive and negative, functionality, object, and regression tests.
● Experience on REST Assured Library for testing Web Services using Ready API with Postman and Collections.
● Directly involved in Development and Execution of Test Cases and Test Scripts by reviewing the business requirements and technical specifications documents.  
● Performed Smoke Test, Functional Test, Regression Test, worked on preparation of Test Plans, Test Cases and write Test Scripts
● Used BDD with Cucumber, JAVA language and created future files with a scenario and scenario outline as well as writing step definitions for behavior.
● Worked with test cases and test scripts and modified to accommodate new changes to the software/applications.
● Used Data Driven Frameworks and Selenium tool to read the data from excel file using Apache POI and generate the pass/fail in the excel sheet.
● Automated UI Testing with Selenium WebDriver, JAVA, TestNG and Cucumber frameworks.
● Used JIRA to track the tasks and issues, attended daily status meetings to update the status work.